This is my master thesis I wrote for my master thesis at ETH. Following the abstract.
# Abstract
After some introductory musings a corpus of related work, in both analytical and data-driven bin and box packing methods is reviewed. These papers influenced this thesis considerably or are considered interesting and valuable addition. Next, a class of algorithmic problems are introduced. Specifically focusing on the NP complexity class, the relationship between bin packing and the NP class is explored. An explanation on how box packing relates and is an adaptation of 2D bin packing is provided, along with a brief discussion why dynamic programming cannot effectively solve the bin or box packing problem.<br />
Following this, a first naïve approach is outlined and the reasons why clever approaches, such as spectral convolution, fail are discussed. The concept of tri-level convolution and the cost function heuristic are introduced. A reformulated packing problem is stated, and some analytical costfunctions are presented.<br />
Next, concrete implementations in C++, specifically focusing on the MedianQuadTree (MQT) library, which solves the tri-level convolution in $\(O(\sqrt{n})\)$, are delved into. A detailed explanation of the algorithm is provided, and benchmarks demonstrating an overall speedup of approximately 10x are presented.<br />
Following this, the TurboPacker (TP) library, which uses the MQT library as a backend and solves the box packing problem using a cost function heuristic, is presented. The functionality of the library, including its frontend and its three operational modes, is showcased. Additionally, the inner workings of the library and how it employs a fire-and-forget approach to maximize user-friendliness are discussed.<br />
Finally, results from deploying handcrafted analytical costfunctions are presented and their limitations discussed. Furthermore, a first sketch of an unsupervised learning approach using annealing and random gradient ascent are introduced. The achieved results are showcased and reviewed.<br />
The thesis concludes with remarks summarizing the findings and identifying four critical areas where further research is needed: The lack of a distributed and or a CUDA implementation, the lack of critical functionality like environmental information, the lack of understanding of analytic costfunctions and the lack of work done into unsupervised learning.
